# Working-with-Melbourne Traffic Data using R
by Adeyinka (Kay) Freeman

My First Project - Traffic Count Vehicle Classification 2014-2017 (Melbourne Open Data)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
According to Australia Bureau of Statistics 2021 Census Report, Melbourne (the capital of Victoria) has a population of 149,615 which constitutes about 3.04% of the population of Victoria at 4,917,750. According to the 2021 "Greater Capital City Statistical Area" Factsheet of Australia Bureau of Statistics, Melbourne occupies an area size of 9,993 km² (3,858.3 sq. mi) and it consists of 31 municipalities.  
The City of Melbourne “2022 Open Data Project” Report published that the city engaged a contractor to carry out a traffic count across all the 31 municipalities in Melbourne. Records captured were done on an hourly basis. The vehicles identified were segmented into twelve (12) categories based on Austroads vehicle classification which are listed below: -
Class 1 (Short Vehicle), Class 2 (Short Vehicle Towing), Class 3 (Two Axle Truck), Class 4 (Three Axle Truck), Class 5 (Four Axle Truck), Class 6 (Three Axle Articulated Vehicle), Class 7 (Four Axle Articulated Vehicle), Class 8 (Five Axle Articulated Vehicle), Class 9 (Six Axle Articulated Vehicle), Class 10 (B Double), Class 11 (Double Road Train) and, Class 12 (Triple Road Train). To address the anomaly of a vehicle which was not captured or could not be determined, a vehicle class 13 was used.  
The Data range we would be covering in this assessment is for the period of 2014 to 2017. Provision in the data will show the commencement of capture of bikes, motorcycles, and maximum vehicle speed in 2016 and 2017. However, 2014 and 2015 will not include these data points. In line with the requirements for the group collaboration project, the data also includes: -  Road corridor data on “road_segment” and “seg_id”.    

Data Source - Traffic Count Vehicle Classification 2014-2017 (Melbourne Open Data)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Please note that where records have more than one road segment, such records are taking into consideration as intersecting roads with their respesctive IDs. Our Data source can be accessed from the URL: - https://data.melbourne.vic.gov.au/explore/dataset/traffic-count-vehicle-classification-2014-2017/information/?dataChart=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 

